# Garbage-Monitor-ardunio-esp32
Nowadays, there are tons of flats and apartments which have been built in the rapid urbanization area. This is due to high housing demands which have been drastically risen as a result of migration from villages to cities to find work. There are several issues faced by the residents of the flats. One of them is disposal of solid waste.Unlike private houses, the residents of all the apartments use a common dustbin, which tends to fill up very quickly. This overflowing of garbage is a sanitary issue which might cause diseases like cholera and dengue. The idea struck us when we observed that the garbage truck use to go around the town to collect solid waste twice a day. Although this system was thorough it was very inefficient.What our system does is it gives a real time indicator of the garbage level in a trash can at any given time. Using that data we can then optimize waste collection routes and ultimately reduce fuel  consumption. An Ultrasonic Sensor is installed at the top of Trash Can and will measure the distance of garbage from the top of Trash can and we can set a threshold value according to the size of trash can. If the distance will be less than this threshold value, means that the Trash can is full of garbage and we will print the message “Basket is Full” on the message and if the distance will be more than this threshold value ,then we will print the distance remaining for the garbage to be full
In this section we design structure of the system before implementation of circuit. we use advanced microcontroller called Arduino (ATmega8). It has in built with many components like analog to digital converter, clock of 16 MHz, shift registers.In this project we put the ultrasonic sensor on top of the garbage bin/ dump. The output of the ultrasonic sensor is processed by the Arduino and the output is then sent to the GSM module which sends a text message to the concerned person. We have a threshold value of 5cm.Which means that if the distance of the sensor from the top of the garbage is less than 5cm, the output will come with a message that the basket is full. Also, a buzzer will ring if output is less than 5cm. The DHT11 sensor will show the temperature and the humidity.
